.TH readpci 8 "@TODAY@" "@VERSION@" "The PCI Utilities"
.SH NAME
readpci \- read or write PCI registers
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B readpci
.RB [ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B readpci
is a utility for reading and writing PCI registers in a memory
mapped range.

If you are going to report bugs in PCI device drivers or in
.I readpci
itself, please include output of "lspci -vvx" or even better "lspci -vvxxx"
(however, see below for possible caveats).

Access to read and write registers in PCI configuration space is restricted to root,
So,
.I readpci
isn't available to normal users.

.SH OPTIONS

.SS Program options
.TP
.B -v
Be verbose and display detailed information about the actions of readpci.
.TP
.B -w [<value>]
The value to write to the address, usually specified like 0x0123abcd. Using
this argument causes a read after write to the register to report the value
read back after write. This parameter is optional but requires -a.
.TP
.B -W [<value>]
The value to write to the address, usually specified like 0x0123abcd. Using
this argument AVOIDS a read after write to the register and DOES NOT report the
value read back after write. This parameter is optional, but cannot be used
with -w and requires -a.
.TP
.B -a [<address>]
The address to read or write from (or both), as an offset from the start of the
BAR. Typically specified like 0x0123abcd.
.TP
.B -b [<value>]
Optional parameter, defaults to 0 if not specified. BAR number to access if
other than BAR0.
.TP
.B -m
Read from MSI-X BAR.
.TP
.B -D
Add more PCI library debugging.
.TP
.B -q
Don't print the banner during each read or write.

.SS Options for selection of devices
.TP
.B -s [[[[<domain>]:]<bus>]:][<device>][.[<func>]]
Show only devices in the specified domain (in case your machine has several host bridges,
they can either share a common bus number space or each of them can address a PCI domain
of its own; domains are numbered from 0 to ffff), bus (0 to ff), device (0 to 1f) and function (0 to 7).
Each component of the device address can be omitted or set to "*", both meaning "any value". All numbers are
hexadecimal.  E.g., "0:" means all devices on bus 0, "0" means all functions of device 0
on any bus, "0.3" selects third function of device 0 on all buses and ".4" shows only
the fourth function of each device.
.TP
.B -d [<vendor>]:[<device>][:<class>[:<prog-if>]]
Show only devices with specified vendor, device, class ID, and programming interface.
The ID's are given in hexadecimal and may be omitted or given as "*", both meaning
"any value". The class ID can contain "x" characters which stand for "any digit".

.P
The relative order of positional arguments and options is undefined.
New options can be added in future versions, but they will always
have a single argument not separated from the option by any spaces,
so they can be easily ignored if not recognized.

.SH FILES
.TP
.B @IDSDIR@/pci.ids
A list of all known PCI ID's (vendors, devices, classes and subclasses).

.SH BUGS

There might be some, but none known at this time. If you find one please
let the list know.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lspci (8),
.BR setpci (8),
.BR pci.ids (5),
.BR update-pciids (8),
.BR pcilib (7)

.SH AUTHOR
The PCI Utilities are maintained by Martin Mares <mj@ucw.cz>.
The readpci utility was written by Intel.
